When we're using elastic load balancers, often the applications on our two instances are stateless.
And that means that they don't store information.
Within the C2 instances, cells may be in a cache, but not persistently, and we don't really want
that typically with elastic load balanced applications because obviously instances get terminated,
new ones get launched.
So if we do need to store some data, we often have to store it outside of the C2 instance.
We might also want to make sure that if a user gets redirected to another instance, then they don't
have the real fence.
Okay, so we can use a couple of techniques.
The first one is storing our session state data externally.
So let's say we got a load balancer.
We got some instances and a user connects to an instance.
They might then authenticate and get some authentication credentials that they can use to log in to
the application or maybe to another application, which they're connecting to from the web app running
on the easy to instance that you can see here.
So that data can then be stored in some kind of external service, Dynamo DB is one of those options.
So in this case, the authentication details will be stored in a Dynamo DB table.
So now, if the instance fails, the user gets directed to another instance and then can retrieve those
authentication credentials and carry on.
They don't need to log in again.
That's something that's very good from a usability perspective.
We call this session state data, and it's often used for authentication credentials and various other
information that's relevant to a specific session.
So that data doesn't get lost or needs to be regenerated.
Elastic Cache is another option for storing session state data.
So typically, solutions are Dynamo DB table the cache and in some cases, Amazon S3.
Another technique we have is something called sticky sessions.
In this case, we have a load balancer and our instances and a user connects in to an easy to instance.
Now a cookie gets generates it, and the client then gets bound to that specific issue, to instance
for the lifetime of the cookie.
So if they if their connection gets dropped for some reason and they reconnect, the cookie is going
to tell the load balancer which EC2 instance to send that session to.
So in this case, things like session state data like authentication details might be stored locally
on the actual instance.
Now, if that instance fails, then of course the user gets directed somewhere else, and that means
that information is going to be lost.
So it's not a perfect solution, but it can be helpful in many circumstances.
You can use sticky sessions with an external store for session state data as well.
Often they'll be used separately, but you can use them together.
Now, why might you use them together?
Some data might get stored locally.
Other data might fit better into an external store.
And of course, with the external store, that's going to be a little bit more licensee.
So you have to consider whether that's OK for your particular scenario or not.
So that's it for now.
And in the next lesson, we're going to enable sticky sessions and see how it works.